# Portfolio Project Overview

This repo will become a multi-use project where I can continue to iterate on ideas.  The first question is whether this is even a good setup when the goal is so ambiguous.  The key components so far are;

- Laravel API with Breeze Authentication
- Next.js
- Mobx
- Typescript

The base project template came from - https://github.com/laravel/breeze-next, though I am updating the components to typescript as I go along.  I'm also using Laravel Sail for a simple docker container environment.

# Project One

I would like to create a simple choose your own adventure game for logged in users.  Some of their data will be saved to the db while session data created via events in the game will be held by the mobx store.

# Installation
(assuming you wish to use the Sail environment included, otherwise consider following the original template installation in the link above)

- Install Docker Desktop
- Git clone project - `git@github.com:sijn82/portfolio.git`
- Cd into project root
- Install composer depedancies including Sail using the following command
`docker run --rm \
    -u "$(id -u):$(id -g)" \
    -v "$(pwd):/var/www/html" \
    -w /var/www/html \
    laravelsail/php82-composer:latest \
    composer install --ignore-platform-reqs`
- Copy and paste the `.env.example` file and rename to `.env`
- Change `DB_HOST` from `127.0.0.1` to `mysql` and `DB_USERNAME` from `root` to `sail` and update `DB_PASSWORD` to whatever you'd like.
- Optionally configure an alias for sail, or where you subsequently see the command `sail` below in these instructions replace it with `./vendor/bin/sail`
- If configuring the alias copy and paste the following - `alias sail='[ -f sail ] && sh sail || sh vendor/bin/sail'`
- Enter command `sail up -d` to build your local environment
- Now add a project key with `sail artisan key:generate`
- Install breeze authentication `sail artisan breeze:install api`
- Because we are using Sail, we need to update another .env that was just autogenerated with the previous command `APP_URL=http://localhost:8000` by removing the port so it should be `APP_URL=http://localhost`
- `sail artisan migrate` (to build db tables, users etc)
- That's the backend sorted - now `cd breeze-next` to setup the frontend
- `npm install` or `yarn install`
- Copy and paste the `.env.example` file and rename to `.env.local` - it contains only one variable right now `NEXT_PUBLIC_BACKEND_URL` - just like before we need to remove the port from the url.
- `npm run dev`

If everything has gone to plan, then you should be able to register a new user and login to the dashboard.
